---
layout: post
title: Making Bloglio
byline: Jake Dahn
---

"Bloglio":http://bloglio.heroku.com started as a day dream during my 'dynamic web applications' class. As everyone was learning about wordpress I was off in happyland thinking about setting up my new blog, and thinking up new ways on how I could force myself to continue blogging on a regular basis. During this daydream I remembered a conversation I had with jesse a few weeks before regarding doing something with "Twilio":http://twilio.com (basically a phone service with full rest api).

Then in what seemed like a blink of an eye I convinced myself that voice blogging was genius, and it had to be done... right away! I spent the day conversing with people and asking around on twitter; trying to figure out who would use a voice blogging application, and who showed even the slightest interest.

After receiving a bit of interest and talking to Jesse about the idea – it was time to move forward and actually make some sort of working prototype. So over the course of a highly caffeinated night of reading and learning I mustered up a basic working prototype of the voice blogging app, dubbed Bloglio. Luckily I had actually been building a blog backend using the Sinatra framework for my personal blog just the weekend before. Because I had a very basic blog backend written from my personal blogging adventures, I was able to hit the ground running with Twilio.

I actually tried using a few different libraries to interact with the twilio api, but I wasn't really having luck with the first few. I eventually settled on the "webficient gem":http://github.com/webficient/twilio. The readme made things look pretty simple so after a bit of poking around I managed to create a working prototype with less than 20 lines of code (minus the 5 line authentication required). Below is the entire functionality/interaction with the twilio api which enables the application functionality.

{% highlight ruby %}

post "/handle_call" do
  verb = Twilio::Verb.new { |v|
    v.say("Please record your blog post after the beep.")
    v.pause(:length => 1)
    v.record(:transcribe => true, :transcribeCallback => '/handle_transcribe')
    v.hangup
  }    
  verb.response
end

post "/handle_transcribe" do
  entry = Entry.new

  entry.title = "New voice blog from #{Time.now}"
  entry.body  = params[:TranscriptionText] 
  entry.recording_url = params[:RecordingUrl]

  entry.save
end

{% endhighlight %}


h3. Say wha?

Granted being happy about finally making a prototype, I had to face the reality that voice transcription (at least from twilio) sucks. I've had at least ten different people give it a whirl, and none of the transcriptions have turned out accurate. I'm really not sure how voice transcription works, it seems like a complex system, but I hope that with time things get better. Cheap and open technology on the telephony front are what makes fun projects like this possible.

Bloglio will remain active until the development credit for my account is gone. 


h3. Go Play!

If you're curious to see how things work, feel free to give it a try. Head over to "Bloglio":http://bloglio.heroku.com and just click the 'call me' button in the header, then enter your phone number into the form. You should receive a phone call in seconds, after recording your blog post it will appear within a few minutes on the front page.

I haven't had the time to explore other services, but I really like the way twilio works and the community that has sprung up around it. So if this post piqued any interest, I encourage you to head over "Twilio":http://twilio.com and start making something cool.
